Dependency update docs (#5292)
kyma-project/test-infra: docs/prow/dependency-update.md

# Dependency updates

> To help keep dependency up to date you can use dependabot together with automated testing and merging of pull requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To help keep dependency up to date you can use Dependabot together with automated testing and merging of pull requests.
```
This seems to be a proper name that's capitalized in the original documentation.

> Dependabot is a GitHub tool which can monitor repository and create pull requests to update dependencies. Dependabot support multiple languages. Check dependabot documentation for details.

Author: Moved link to Dependabot docs from How to use it section.

> Pull requests created by dependabot will be tested by Prow. Pull requestes with required tests passed and meeting criteria can be automatically merged by Tide without human review.

Author: I's an option.

Owners of updated files can subscribe to receive notifications when pull request is merged without human review.

## How to use it

> 

Reviewer: Instructions should always be a list of numbered steps

> Enable dependabot in your repository. [Here](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-version-updates/about-dependabot-version-updates) is detailed dependabot documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enable Dependabot in your repository. Learn more under [About Dependabot version updates](https://docs.github.com/en/code-security/dependabot/dependabot-version-updates/about-dependabot-version-updates).
```
What exactly do we want users to do in this step? Read the Dependabot instructions and enable Dependabot on their own? If yes, what's the purpose of the following step?

> To enable dependabot create dependabot.yml configuration file. To make it easier, you can use a rendertemplate tool to create dependabot.yml file. Use [kyma-project/test-infra](../../.github/dependabot.yml) configuration as an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To enable Dependabot, create `dependabot.yml` configuration file. You can use a rendertemplate tool to create the `dependabot.yml` file. Use [kyma-project/test-infra](../../.github/dependabot.yml) configuration as an example.
```
Wait, didn't the previous step also say "create Dependabot"? Are we doing it again now? What was the purpose of the previous step?

Author: Which previous step? A sentence before says that user need to enable dependabot. There is nothing about creating a file.

> Copy [dependabot.tmpl](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/templates/templates/dependabot.tmpl) file to .github directory in your repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Copy the [dependabot.tmpl](https://github.com/kyma-project/test-infra/blob/main/templates/templates/dependabot.tmpl) file to the `.github` directory in your repository.
```

> Create dependabot-data.yaml file in .github directory in your repository. Use [test-infra](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/main/.github/dependabot-config.yaml) data file as an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a `dependabot-data.yaml` file in the `.github` directory in your repository. Use the [test-infra](https://github.com/kyma-project/kyma/blob/main/.github/dependabot-config.yaml) data file as an example.
```

> If you want to merge dependabot pull request without human review add `autoMerge` local set for your ecosystems in data file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. If you want to merge Dependabot pull requests without human review, add `autoMerge` local set for your ecosystems in the data file:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```
```
Indentation to keep it under this step.

> localSets:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   localSets:
```

  autoMerge:

>     labels:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       labels:
```

    - "skip-review"

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```
```

Please check whether the indentation I added is correct; it's hard in the review mode. All code sample lines should have 3 additional blanks, I think.

Run rendertemplate with following flags to generate dependabot configuration file.

> 

Reviewer: Also here, please add indentation so that lines 32-38 are part of the step.

`go run cmd/rendertemplates/main.go --config ../../../kyma/.github/dependabot-config.yaml --skip-data-dir --appendSlice`

> | flag name       | description  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Flag Name       | Description  |
```

|-----------------|--------------|

> | --config        | path to dependabot-data.yml |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --config        | Path to `dependabot-data.yml` |
```

> | --skip-data-dir | skip loading data files from data directory |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| --skip-data-dir | Skip loading data files from data directory |
```

| --appendSlice   | append slice instead overwrite |

> You can get notification every time a file for which you are an owner is updated. To make it happen enable notifications in `aliases-map.yaml` or `users-map.yaml` files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. If you want to get a notification every time a file for which you are an owner is updated, enable notifications in the `aliases-map.yaml` or `users-map.yaml` files.
```

> Update `aliases-map.yaml` file to send notification to yours team channel. If configuration for alias is not present, or `automerge.notification` is set to `false`, system will find alias members and check configuration in `users-map.yaml` for each user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
8. To send notification to your team channel, update the `aliases-map.yaml` file. If there is no configuration for an alias, or `automerge.notification` is set to `false`, the system finds alias members and checks configuration in the `users-map.yaml` for each user.
```

I'm assuming this a separate step, or does it belong to the previous step?

Author: It's part of previous step.

Reviewer: Then let's add 3 blanks instead of the step number :)

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```
```
Add blanks as indentation to this line and the rest of the sample code.

- com.github.aliasname: "github.com owners name"
  automerge.notification: true
  com.slack.enterprise.sap.groupsnames:
    - "slack team group name"
  com.slack.enterprise.sap.channelsnames:
    - "slack team channel name"
```

> If you don't notify on yours team channel, update `users-map.yaml` file to send notifications to you directly. This file will be consulted if your github user is directly set as an owner too.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   If want notifications sent to you directly instead of your team channel, update the `users-map.yaml` file in the following way. This file is also consulted if your GitHub user is set as an owner.
```

Author: This doesn't work in a way that updating users-map.yaml enable direct notifications. It's an option when notifications to team channel are disabled.

Reviewer: Under which circumstances would notifications to the team channel be disabled?

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ```
```

Add blanks to adjust the indentation in this line and the rest of the sample code.

- com.github.username: "username"
  sap.tools.github.username: "username"
  com.slack.enterprise.sap.username: "slack ID"
  automerge.notification: true
```

## How it works

> Dependabot creates pull requests according to the `dependabot.yml` configuration file located in `.github` directory in repository root. Dependabot will label pull request with labels defined in configuration file. If pull requests are labeled with `skip-review` label, it will be merged once all tests pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependabot creates pull requests according to the `dependabot.yml` configuration file located in `.github` directory in repository root. Dependabot labels pull requests with labels defined in the configuration file. If pull requests are labeled with the `skip-review` label, they are merged after all tests pass.
```

> Pull requests created by dependabot are tested by Prow in the same way as any other pull request. Once all tests pass, pull request will be merged by Tide. Merging require human approval or if pull request has `skip-review` label, Tide will merge it automatically without human approval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pull requests created by Dependabot are tested by Prow in the same way as any other pull request. When all tests pass, the pull request is merged by Tide. Merging requires human approval unless the pull request has the `skip-review` label. In that case, Tide merges it automatically without human approval.
```
Isn't this reiterating basically what's said in line 64 and also in line 7? Why repeat it again here? I suggest to flesh out the introductory section (lines 3ff), maybe even with the "How it works" h2 headline, instead of repeating the content twice after the How To instructions.

Author: The line 64 says about creating pull requests based on dependabot config file. This sentence says PRs are tested the same way as all others, they require human review or skip-review label. Line 64 and 7 doesn't provide this details.
How to use it is a section where a configuration to make it work is described.
How it works provide some detials about implementation.

> After dependabot pull request merging, Prow `automerge-notification` plugin will receive github webhook. Based on notification settings found in `users-map.yaml` and `aliases-map.yaml` files it will send notifications about automated merging.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a pull request has been merged by Dependabot, Prow `automerge-notification` plugin receives a GitHub webhook and sends notifications about automated merging based on the notification settings in the `users-map.yaml` and `aliases-map.yaml` files.
```
